
# Entry 1: city of Kalamann

I have finally been able to aquire a new nice bit of parchment. My last one got a bit messed up in the battle and [[Norik]] wouldn't sell me one unless he could charge an exorbitant price for it.
In Vogler I have found and lost family. [[Becklin Uth Viharin]], protector of [[Vogler]], my aunt, has passed away leading a charge agains the Army of [[Takhisis]]. She was slain by a warrior she called [[Kansaldi]], a name I am unfamiliar with, but plan to inquire on if I were to get the chance of speaking to [[Grandmaster Bravecrest]]. She seemed to know her, and it seemed like she knew more than just her name. Tragically, I cannot question my aunt further, but for now I am working on the assumption that they were either aquaintances, or Kansaldi was involved with the [[Knights of Solamnia]]. I could not find any recent record mentioning her name in the city of [[Kalamann]], which is unsurprising but nevertheless regrettable. In the short time I spent at Vogler, I came to enjoy my aunts presence and gracefully mourn her loss. I will send a formal letter back to Hargoth, in proper form, to report her death and declare myself witness to her passing of title over to [[Darret]]. He has not gone through the rituals, but the casus justifies his right of title according to the measures.
Darret will make a fine knight. I am sure of it. He jumped through the proper hoops, much unlike myself and has the heart of a protector.

As for myself, I've received the offer to join the city of Kalamann in its defense, but have politely declined. I owe much to Grandmaster Bravecrest and binding myself to Kalamann might hinder my ability to join her side if she required it. The moment might never come, but alas I fear to risk the chance of further disappointing her.
I miss her hearty belly laughs every day.

My companions have taken up the offer, some for financial reasons, but all in the hopes of keeping the people of Vogler safe. 
I was surprised by the moxie shown by the Kender. For such a small stature, [[Vinnie]] has truly impressed me with his willingness to face danger head on and  though I will not make the judgement whether it is bravery or naivety, he has presented quick decisionmaking and flexibility in combat. He is a great asset to work with, though his unrulyness has made him slightly more resistant to tactical suggestions. I should start to further demonstrate the value of pack tactics to him. 
> "A warband leader is only as good as their soldiers trust in their decisions."
> ~Caledia Legnares' 

[[Norik]] is quite the character. I think my sister would eat him for breakfast, after all, men like him are, *regrettably* her type, but I dread the day the two of them meet. I've famously never gotten along with men like Norik, but there is more to him than his charming little suave personality lets on. I wonder of his motives. Few noblemen swing swords like he does, much less on a battlefield frontline and even fewer live to tell their tall-tales. It is quite impressive how he is able to adjust himself to enemy defenses and his feints are unusual, as well as statistically effective. I need to spar with him and inquire further on his past training regiment.
He regretfully seems to continually entertain the idea that giving people like [[Baccaris]] their "proper" undeserved attention is the right thing to do in order to avoid the trouble they put you in. As I do not entertain such notions, I've challenged lord Baccaris to a duel. If that is the way I die, so be it. I will put my steel where my mouth is and loose my head if he truly bests me. But until then, that slimy piece of rotten skunkmeat can eat my non-proverbial ass. 
*(reminder to myself. Remove this language if I am offered a copy deal by someone who wishes to spread my oh so wise ideas)*

As for [[Varis]], the elf is a bit of a mystery to me. He seems very out of place in these parts, not that it is my place to judge him for it. After all, I too, should technically be somewhere else.
His combat prowess is frankly intimidating. Though his physique may appear unassuming, he possesses unusual speed, great strength and a hunger for battle I've not seen in my compatriots. Using a bestial fighting style, he seems to take advantage of strangely technical flaws in the enemies defenses. The grappling techniques he uses are outlandish, but due to his immense strength, he takes care of the enemies with ease. I do not have much experience with elves, or magic, but it seems like neither of those is responsible for these claws he has. Interestingly his very agressive fighting style does tend to mesh well with my tactical repertoire, maybe it pertains to the fact that a big part of my experience was in leading cavalry units. His speed certainly reminds me of it.
Varis seems a little unfamiliar with basic concepts of specifically human societies, which has led to Norik taking advantage of him. He has since grown wiser to Noriks behaviour, but it is nonetheless slightly entertaining to see. I will take care as to not allow any more of Noriks' shenanigans