Lord Soth was the Protector of Knightlund, a major province in eastern Solamnia, and the lord of [[Dargaard Keep]]. He was a highly **respected knight** and a powerful figure in Solamnia. He was also a good man who gave into temptation and lust and let it destroy him. He **fell in love with an elven priestess of Paladine** and, **breaking his vows to the Oath and Measure** as well as his own wedding vows, he seduced her. She became pregnant and he brought her back to Dargaard Keep to live with him. Exactly what happened to **Soth’s first wife is shrouded in mystery. Soth claims she died of natural causes**, though many speculated that he actually murdered her. Regardless, Soth’s first wife died, and he took the elven woman as his wife and made the child his legal heir.
Knowing that Soth was on the verge of being stripped of his titles and forced out of the Knighthood, the **elven priestess prayed to Paladine**. She was granted foresight to see the Cataclysm and its destruction and was told that Soth could prevent it all. **If he would ride to Istar, he could stop the Kingpriest, though it would cost him his life**. Seeing his life falling apart and wanting to redeem himself, **Soth agreed to this quest** and set out immediately for Istar with a retinue of loyal knights.
Along the way, **Soth was turned around by the lies of Takhisis’ servants** about his new wife and turned from his quest and rode back to Dargaard Keep. As Soth rode into his keep, the gods hurled the burning mountain at Istar, smashing the heretical nation and breaking the world. Dargaard Keep began to burn in the wake of the mountain’s destruction and **Soth’s wife and child were caught in the flames**. Instead of helping them, Soth **sat on his throne and watched them burn**, listening to their screams.