#History 
In the wake of the Third Dragon War, [[Knights of Solamnia|the Knighthood]] held the largest military presence on Ansalon, but the nation of [[Istar]] was the dominant power. Through trade and religion, Istar spread until it covered all of eastern Ansalon save for the forest of [[Silvanesti]]. [[Solamnia]] **came to depend on Istar’s trade and currency**, while Istar relied on the military might of the Knights of Solamnia in many situations. The two “good” nations became fast allies, and **Solamnia supported the rule of the Kingpriest** and the spread of Good throughout the world. This would prove to be the downfall of Solamnia and the Knighthood.
The last **Kingpriest**, [[Beldinas Pilofiro]], **endeavored to command the gods** and force them to cleanse the world of Evil. Had he been successful, **he would have destroyed the Balance upon which Krynn was built**, so the **gods could not allow it to happen**. They sent numerous signs to warn the Kingpriest but, in his hubris, he refused to see the signs for what they were. **Paladine did hear the prayers of one of his few remaining true priestesses**, however, and he granted her request. **Her husband could prevent the Cataclysm while redeeming himself, though it would cost him his life**. Her husband was a Knight of the Rose named [[Loren Soth]].
Soth, failed in his quest, giving in to [[Takhisis]]' deception. The gods hurled the mountain of fire upon Istar, destroying the heretical nation and breaking the world.

**Most of Solamnia was spared** the physical destruction of the Cataclysm, but the country became overrun with monsters of all types. The Knighthood tried valiantly, if somewhat futilely, to fight these hordes. But after many years of such attacks, people’s **faith in the Knights began to dwindle**. **The story of Lord Soth began to circulate** and the reputation of the Knighthood became blighted by his foul deeds. People publicly jeered the Oath and Measure, and words escalated into violence. **Knights were foully murdered**, their castles and homes invaded and burned, and their families slaughtered or **driven into exile**.
Centuries of heroism fell to a few years of panicked hatred. The Knights of Solamnia faded from view. Some threw down their swords and took off their spurs, trading them for the tools of the common laborer. Others took up the role of vigilante, roaming the countryside fighting evil under assumed names. Yet others could not work in secret; they either stayed where they were, doing what good they could, or left Solamnia.

## Age of Despair

Early in the Age of Despair, the Knighthood struggled to deal with the fallout of the Cataclysm. **The Grand Master had perished** in the aftermath of the Cataclysm and, according to the Measure, there were **not enough Knights to make up a Grand Circle to elect a new one**. The majority of the **Order of Clerists disappeared** with the gods, and the few who did remain died within a few years of the disaster. Again according to the Measure, there could be no High Clerist if there were no Clerists from which to elect him.
The remaining Knights began to lose themselves in the letter of the Measure, forgetting the spirit of the Oath.